grokevt-ripdll


=NAME=
	grokevt-ripdll - A tool for extracting message resources from a
	PE-formatted file.

=SYNOPSIS=
	grokevt-ripdll <INPUT_DLL> <OUTPUT_DB>


=DESCRIPTION=
	grokevt-ripdll parses a PE-formatted file (modern .exe and .dll
	files are examples PE-formatted files) and extracts all message
	resources.  These resources are then stored in a Berkeley-style
	database file, which maps relative virtual addresses (RVAs) to
	the message resources themselves.  These RVAs are what can be
	found in a windows event log file (.evt extension) to reference
	the proper message resource.

	This utility is not intended to be used directly by end-users.
	It is used by grokevt-builddb(1) to extract resources from all
	DLL/EXEs referenced in the registry.


=ARGUMENTS=
	INPUT_DLL  This is the PE formatted file to extract resources
		   from. (It doesn't need to have a .dll extension, but
		   it is most commonly used on DLLs.)

	OUTPUT_DB  The database file to store the RVA->message mapping
		   in.  If this file already exists, it will be
		   overwritten.


=BUGS=
	Probably many.  This should be considered unstable software.

	The documentation used as a reference for PE formatted files was
	not complete or not completely accurate in places.  Much
	guess-and-check took place.


=SEE ALSO=
	grokevt-addlog(1) grokevt-builddb(1) grokevt-parselog(1) grokevt(7)


=CREDITS=
	Original PE header code borrowed from the pymavis project.
	For more information, see:
		http://www.mplayerhq.hu/~arpi/pymavis/ 

	Message resource parsing added by Timothy D. Morgan.

	Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Timothy D. Morgan

	Copyright (C) 2004 A'rpi


=LICENSE=
	Please see the file "LICENSE" included with this software
	distribution.

	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
	GNU General Public License version 2 for more details.
