grokevt-builddb


=NAME=
	grokevt-builddb - Builds a database tree based on a single
	windows system for the purpose of event log conversion.


=SYNOPSIS=
	grokevt-builddb \[-c CSID\] <CONFIG_PROFILE> <OUTPUT_DIR>


=DESCRIPTION=
	grokevt-builddb uses grokevt-ripdll(1) and reglookup(1) along
	with information found in configuration files to extract all
	necessary information from a windows installation for the
	conversion of event log files.  The registry is read to
	determine the locations of critical DLLs and the event log files
	themselves.  This, and other information out of the registry is
	stored in a directory structure which acts as a kind of
	flat-file database.  This database can then be used by
	grokevt-parselog(1) to generate human-readable output.
	
	The key to successfully running this utility is proper
	configuration.  Please see grokevt(7) for information on what
	needs to be configured.


=OPTIONS=
	-c CSID		This option allows one to explicitly set which
			ControlSet in the registry is used to extract
			event log message mappings.    If specified,
			this item must be a positive decimal integer.
			If unspecified,	grokevt-builddb will attempt to
			determine the best ControlSet by looking at the
			most recent CurrentControlSet, stored in the
			system registry under the path '/Select/Current'.
			Most users should ignore this option unless
			there is a specific reason why the last
			CurrentControlSet should not be used.


=ARGUMENTS=
	CONFIG_PROFILE	This is the name of the configuration profiles
			stored in the global configuration directory
			under the directory 'systems'.  See grokevt(7)
			for more details on how to properly configure a
			system profile.

	OUTPUT_DIR	The path to the location of the output database.
			If anything already exists in this directory, it
			may be overwritten or deleted.


=EXAMPLES=
	To generate a database at '~/win2k.grokevt' based on the system
	configuration profile 'win2k':
	  **grokevt-builddb win2k ~/win2k.grokevt**

	To repeat the last command, instead using registry information
	explicitly from /ControlSet002:
	  **grokevt-builddb -c 2 win2k ~/win2k.grokevt**


=BUGS=
	Probably many.  This should be considered unstable software.

	This has undergone little testing.


=SEE ALSO=
	grokevt-parselog(1) grokevt-ripdll(1) reglookup(1) grokevt(7)


=CREDITS=
	Written by Timothy D. Morgan

	Copyright (C) 2005 Timothy D. Morgan


=LICENSE=
	Please see the file "LICENSE" included with this software
	distribution.

	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
	GNU General Public License version 2 for more details.
