<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<refentry id='grokevt.7'>
  <!--  $Id$ -->
  <refmeta>
    <refentrytitle>grokevt</refentrytitle>
    <manvolnum>7</manvolnum>
    <refmiscinfo class="sectdesc">File Conversion Utilities</refmiscinfo>
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv id='name'>
    <refname>GrokEVT</refname>
    <refpurpose>a collection of scripts built for reading windows event log files.</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>

  <refsect1 id='description'>
    <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
    <para>
	This document serves as an overview to using the GrokEVT suite
	of tools.  Please see the man pages for each tool for specific
	command-line options.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='using'>
    <title>USING</title>
    <para>
	Using GrokEVT on a set of windows partitions is a three stage
	process.  One must first mount the partitions and configure the
	system's profile.  Next, grokevt-builddb(1) must be run to
	extract the necessary information from these partitions.
	Finally, grokevt-parselog(1) may be run to use this information
	to convert the logs to something useful.
    </para>
    <para>	
	<emphasis>Mounting and configuration:</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
	This is the most labor-intensive step of the process.  There are
	several technical reasons why this cannot be simpler, and it is
	unlikely many will be resolved anytime soon. (Sorry, blame the
	vendor who produced these logs that you wish to convert.)
    </para>
    <para>	
	First mount the partitions used by your windows system.
	Specifically, mount any partition that has software installed on
	it.  (You can probably get away with not mounting ones with no
	software, or no software that produces events in the event log.)
	This includes windows shares, if you have any with software
	installed on them.
    </para>
    <para>
	The key point when mounting partitions or shares, is that you
	must mount them with case-insensitive filenames.  To do this in
	Linux, you should be able to use the NTFS option 'posix=0', or
	with type vfat this appears to be the default.  On FreeBSD, one
	can use the -i option with NTFS and mount_ntfs, but this hasn't
	been tested.  (More research is necessary in this area.  Please
	let me know if case-insensitivity is available on other *NIXes
	and what the options are.)  All of this, of course, depends on
	your version of mount and related software.  See mount(8) for
	more information.
    </para>
    <para>
	Once you have all necessary filesystems mounted for your windows
	image, you need to configure GrokEVT so it knows where
	everything is.  If you look in the main configuration directory,
	(by default at '/usr/local/etc/grokevt') you'll find a
	sub-directory called 'systems'.  In there is a set of
	system configuration profiles.  Each directory under 'systems'
	represents the configuration for a single windows host.
	You may create directories here of any name.  It is suggested
	you use the host name of the system you wish to extract logs
	from.
    </para>
    <para>
	By default, there will be one system configuration there
	already, named 'example'.  I suggest you make a full copy of
	this, and edit it from there to create your own configuration:
    </para>
    <para>
     <screen>
	  # cd /usr/local/etc/grokevt/systems
	  # cp -r example mysystem
     </screen>
    </para>
    <para>
	Now that you have your own configuration, take a look at the
	files under this directory:
    </para>
    <para>
     <screen>
	  path-vars/%SystemRoot%
	  system-registry
	  drives/c:
	  drives/d:
     </screen>
    </para>
    <para>
	Each file represents a single configuration setting.  The first
	line of every file is the setting, all others are ignored.  You
	should start by configuring your drive letters.  These drive
	letters need to map to the *NIX path of the drives.  So, if you
	mounted your C: partition under '/mnt/win/c', then you should do
	the following:
    </para>
    <para>
     <screen>
	  echo /mnt/win/c > drives/c:
     </screen>
    </para>
    <para>
	This will of course, overwrite that file with your actual mount
	point for the C: drive.  Do this for all drives mounted on your
	windows system.
    </para>
    <para>
	Next, you need to configure your %SystemRoot% path variable.
	Since the registry often references files in relation to this
	variable, we need to know where it is on your system.
	Typically, on W2K this should be 'C:\WINNT'.  On other windows
	systems it is often 'C:\Windows'.  This case-insensitive path must 
	as a full windows path (including a drive letter).
    </para>
    <para>
	Finally, you need to set the path of the system registry.  This
	path  <emphasis>must</emphasis> be a *NIX path, and not a windows 
        path, and it is case-sensitive.  It
	should be located under your %SystemRoot%.  For instance, if you
	mount a W2K machine's C: on '/mnt/win/c', this path will
	probably be: /mnt/win/c/WINNT/system32/config/system
    </para>
    <para>
	This will vary from system to system, but if you have ever done
	any forensics, you should be able to find the correct path
	pretty quickly.
    </para>
    <para>
	<emphasis>Using grokevt-builddb(1):</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
	Once you get past the mounting and configuration step, you're in
	good shape.  To extract the necessary information from the
	system you just mounted, you just need to decide where you want
	to store the output database.  Based on the example paths above,
	one could run grokevt-builddb(1) like so:
    </para>
    <para>
     <screen>
	  grokevt-builddb mysystem /var/db/grokevt/mysystem
     </screen>
    </para>
    <para>
	Or something similar.  This step will take some time, as a lot
	of files need to be parsed.  You will likely get some warnings
	about missing DLLs and possibly service removals.  This is
	normal if software on the windows system failed to clean up the
	registry correctly when it was un-installed.  You might want to
	record this information though, if later you find you are
	missing a lot of message templates in your log output.
    </para>
    <para>
	Now that you have finished this step, you have fully extracted
	all information needed to interpret the event logs.
    </para>
    <para>
	<emphasis>Using grokevt-parselog(1):</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
	To run grokevt-parselog(1), you must specify the database
	directory that you generated with grokevt-builddb(1).  Initially,
        you will want to find out what event logs were extracted by
        running:
    </para>
    <para>
     <screen>
	  grokevt-parselog -l /var/db/grokevt/mysystem
     </screen>
    </para>
    <para>
	This will print out all available event log types, based on
	information found previously in the system's registry.  Then you
	may view one of those logs simply by dropping the -l option, and 
	adding it's name as the	second parameter.  For instance, to view
	the 'System' log:
    </para>
    <para>
     <screen>
	  grokevt-parselog /var/db/grokevt/mysystem System
     </screen>
    </para>
    <para>
	See the grokevt-parselog(1) man page for further options.
    </para>
    <para>
     <emphasis>Finding and Parsing Log Fragments:</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
     One may find it useful to parse deleted log files or fragments of 
     log files found in a system's RAM dump.  A special-purpose tool, 
     grokevt-findlogs(1) is included in this distribution which makes
     finding log fragments easy.  It can find even a single log record by
     itself with a relatively low rate of false positives.
    </para>
    <para>
     Suppose one has a file, dump.img, which contains an image of a 
     system's RAM, or perhaps the unallocated blocks of a filesystem
     (as might be produced by The SleuthKit's dls(1)).  One could search
     this dump by running:
    </para>
    <para>
     <screen>
	  grokevt-findlogs dump.img
     </screen>
    </para>
    <para>
     This will produce a listing of all hits in the file, which may 
     include header records, cursor records, or log records, offsets and
     contiguity information to help one eliminate any false positives.
    </para>
    <para> 
     Supposing we found a log fragment in this dump that we're interested
     in, we could simply use dd(1) or some other tool to carve out the
     relevant data in to a file named fragment.evt.  We'd then need to
     find a way to associate this log with a set of message templates.
     This is what grokevt-addlog(1) is for.  Let's take a guess that the
     fragment.evt was originally a part of System log.  We would add the
     log into our previously built message database by running:
    </para>
    <para>
     <screen>
	  grokevt-addlog /var/db/grokevt/mysystem fragment.evt System-fragment System
     </screen>
    </para>
    <para>
     Finally, we can parse the log by simply specifying the newly 
     imported name with grokevt-parselog(1):
    </para>
    <para>
     <screen>
	  grokevt-parselog /var/db/grokevt/mysystem System-fragment
     </screen>
    </para>
    <para>
     If we found that most of the log entries didn't have associated 
     message templates (which would result in lots of warnings to stderr),
     we would be pretty that fragment.evt really wasn't based on a System 
     log.  Simply re-importing it as another log type (and a different name)
     would let us parse it again as if it were of another type.
    </para>
    <para>
     Please see the grokevt-findlogs(1) and grokevt-addlog(1) man pages for
     more information.
    </para>

  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='credits'>
    <title>CREDITS</title>
    <para>
	This man page written by Timothy D. Morgan
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='license'>
    <title>LICENSE</title>
    <para>
      Please see the file "LICENSE" included with this software
      distribution.
    </para>
    <para>      
      This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
      but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
      MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
      GNU General Public License version 3 for more details.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='seealso'>
    <title>SEE ALSO</title>
    <para>
      grokevt-addlog(1) grokevt-builddb(1) grokevt-findlogs(1) grokevt-parselog(1) grokevt-ripdll(1) reglookup(1)
    </para>
  </refsect1>
</refentry>
