<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<refentry id='grokevt-findlogs.1'>
  <!--  $Id$ -->
  <refmeta>
    <refentrytitle>grokevt-findlogs</refentrytitle>
    <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
    <refmiscinfo class="sectdesc">File Conversion Utilities</refmiscinfo>
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv id='name'>
    <refname>grokevt-findlogs</refname>
    <refpurpose>Attempts to find log file fragments in raw binary files, such as memory dumps and disk images.</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>

  <refsect1 id='synopsis'>
    <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
    <para>
      <command>
	grokevt-findlogs -?
      </command>
    </para>
    <para>
      <command>
	grokevt-findlogs [-v] [-h] [-H] [-o <replaceable>offset</replaceable>] <replaceable>raw-file</replaceable>
      </command> 
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='description'>
    <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
    <para>
     grokevt-findlogs searches a raw binary file for event log records.  It produces a 
     simple comma-separated values (CSV) output to stdout which includes metadata
     and offsets of any hits.  Using the metadata and offset/contiguity information,
     it should be easy to determine if the hits are false positives or not.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='arguments'>
    <title>ARGUMENTS</title>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option><replaceable>raw-file</replaceable></option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
           The binary file to be searched.
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='options'>
    <title>OPTIONS</title>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>-?</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
           Prints a basic usage statement.
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>-v</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
           Verbose mode.  Prints status messages to stderr, which can be
           helpful for debugging. (Currently does nothing.)
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>-h</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
           Prints a header row at the top of the CSV output
           containing labels for each column. (This is the default behavior.)
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>-H</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
           Disables the printing of a header row.  This 
           is useful when grokevt-findlogs is used in a script.
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>-o <replaceable>offset</replaceable></option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
           Begin search at this byte offset within the binary file.
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='bugs'>
    <title>BUGS</title>
    <para>
     Probably a few.  This script has not been extensively tested with some guest platforms.
    </para>
    <para>
     There are likely some speed improvements that could be made.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='credits'>
    <title>CREDITS</title>
    <para>
	Written by Timothy D. Morgan
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='license'>
    <title>LICENSE</title>
    <para>
      Please see the file "LICENSE" included with this software
      distribution.
    </para>
    <para>      
      This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
      but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
      MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
      GNU General Public License version 3 for more details.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='seealso'>
    <title>SEE ALSO</title>
    <para>
     grokevt(7) grokevt-addlog(1) grokevt-builddb(1) grokevt-dumpmsgs(1) grokevt-parselog(1) grokevt-ripdll(1)
    </para>
  </refsect1>
</refentry>
