grokevt-parselog


=NAME=
	grokevt-parselog - Parse a windows event log and generate
	human-readable output based on message resources stored in a
	database. 


=SYNOPSIS=
	grokevt-parselog -?|--help
	grokevt-parselog -l <DATABASE_DIR>
	grokevt-parselog [-v] [-H] [-h] <DATABASE_DIR> <LOG_TYPE>


=DESCRIPTION=
	grokevt-parselog reads a windows event log (.evt file) and
	combines that information with messages templates and other
	resources stored in a pre-generated database.  This is then
	printed to stdout in a comma-seperated values (CSV) format.  
	The database must be created by grokevt-builddb(1).


=ARGUMENTS=
	DATABASE_DIR	This is the directory where the database is
			stored.  Currently, the actual log files from
			the original system are also stored in this
			directory tree.

	LOG_TYPE	This is the windows name for the log.  By
			default windows has the following logs:

			  Application
			  Security
			  System

			But others may have been created by third party
			software.  Use the '-l' option to print a list
			of all available log types.
			(The log names are case-sensitive.)


=OPTIONS=
	The following options are available for use.  Not all can be
	used together; refer to the synopsis for usage scenarios.

	-?	Prints a basic usage statement.
	--help

	-l	Used to list the logs available in the specified
		database.

	-v	Verbose mode.  Prints status messages to stderr, and is
		helpful for debugging.

	-h	Prints a header row at the top of the CSV output
		containing labels for each column.  This is on by
		default.

	-H	Disables the printing of a header row.  This is useful
		when grokevt-parselog is used in a script.


=EXAMPLES=
	To list all available logs types stored in '~/example.grokevt':
	  **grokevt-parselog -l ~/example.grokevt**

	To read the 'Application' log from the database stored in
	'~/example.grokevt' and print it to stdout:
	  **grokevt-parselog ~/example.grokevt Application**

	To read the 'System' log from the database stored in
	'~/example.grokevt' and print it to stdout without a header, and
	with verbosity turned on:
	  **grokevt-parselog -v -H ~/example.grokevt System**


=BUGS=
	Probably many.  This software should be considered unstable.
	
	The file event log file format isn't 100% understood at this
	time, and what is understood, isn't 100% implemented.

	Unicode support is currently non-existent.


=SEE ALSO=
	grokevt-builddb(1) grokevt-ripdll(1) grokevt(7)


=CREDITS=
	Originally written by Jamie French.

	Converted to Python and extended by Timothy D. Morgan.

	Andreas Schuster has contributed greatly to the understanding of
	the event log format. 

	Copyright (C) 2005 Timothy D. Morgan

	Copyright (C) 2004 Jamie French


=LICENSE=
	Please see the file "LICENSE" included with this software
	distribution.

	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
	GNU General Public License version 2 for more details.
