<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<refentry id='grokevt-builddb.1'>
  <!--  $Id$ -->
  <refmeta>
    <refentrytitle>grokevt-builddb</refentrytitle>
    <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
    <refmiscinfo class="sectdesc">File Conversion Utilities</refmiscinfo>
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv id='name'>
    <refname>grokevt-builddb</refname>
    <refpurpose>Builds a database tree based on a single windows system for the purpose of event log conversion.</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>

  <refsect1 id='synopsis'>
    <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
    <para>
      <command>
	grokevt-builddb [ -c <replaceable>CSID</replaceable> ] <replaceable>config-profile</replaceable> <replaceable>output-dir</replaceable>
      </command> 
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='description'>
    <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
    <para>
	grokevt-builddb uses grokevt-ripdll(1) and reglookup(1) along
	with information found in configuration files to extract all
	necessary information from a windows installation for the
	conversion of event log files.  The registry is read to
	determine the locations of critical DLLs and the event log files
	themselves.  This, and other information out of the registry is
	stored in a directory structure which acts as a kind of
	flat-file database.  This database can then be used by
	grokevt-parselog(1) to generate human-readable output.
    </para>
    <para>	
	The key to successfully running this utility is proper
	configuration.  Please see grokevt(7) for information on what
	needs to be configured.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='arguments'>
    <title>ARGUMENTS</title>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option><replaceable>config-profile</replaceable></option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
           This is the name of the configuration profiles
           stored in the global configuration directory
           under the directory 'systems'.  See grokevt(7)
           for more details on how to properly configure a
           system profile.
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option><replaceable>output-dir</replaceable></option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
           The path to the location of the output database.
           If anything already exists in this directory, it
           may be overwritten or deleted.
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='options'>
    <title>OPTIONS</title>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>-c <replaceable>CSID</replaceable></option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
           This option allows one to explicitly set which
           ControlSet in the registry is used to extract
           event log message mappings.    If specified,
           this item must be a positive decimal integer.
           If unspecified, grokevt-builddb will attempt to
           determine the best ControlSet by looking at the
           most recent CurrentControlSet, stored in the
           system registry under the path '/Select/Current'.
           Most users should ignore this option unless
           there is a specific reason why the last
           CurrentControlSet should not be used.
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='examples'>
    <title>EXAMPLES</title>
    <para>
     To generate a database at '~/win2k.grokevt' based on the system
     configuration profile 'win2k':
     <screen>
      grokevt-builddb win2k ~/win2k.grokevt
     </screen>

     To repeat the last command, instead using registry information
     explicitly from /ControlSet002:
     <screen>
      grokevt-builddb -c 2 win2k ~/win2k.grokevt
     </screen>
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='bugs'>
    <title>BUGS</title>
    <para>
     Probably a few.  This script has not been extensively tested with some guest platforms.
    </para>
    <para>
     The databases built with this script may not be portable to other 
     systems, depending on the database drivers installed and used in Python.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='credits'>
    <title>CREDITS</title>
    <para>
	Written by Timothy D. Morgan.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='license'>
    <title>LICENSE</title>
    <para>
      Please see the file "LICENSE" included with this software
      distribution.
    </para>
    <para>      
      This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
      but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
      MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
      GNU General Public License version 3 for more details.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='seealso'>
    <title>SEE ALSO</title>
    <para>
     grokevt(7) grokevt-addlog(1) grokevt-dumpmsgs(1) grokevt-findlogs(1) grokevt-parselog(1) grokevt-ripdll(1) reglookup(1)
    </para>
  </refsect1>
</refentry>
